SINGAPORE: Students who sat for the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) this year received their Secondary 1 posting results on Wednesday (Dec 22), with more than 80 per cent of them getting to go to a secondary school from their first three choices.

Students can select up to six secondary school choices. In all, more than 90 per cent of students who took the PSLE this year got posted to a school from their first six choices, said the Ministry of Education (MOE) in a news release on Wednesday. 

This is the first cohort of students scored and posted under a new system. 

MOE said that the posting results under the new achievement level (AL) system were comparable to previous years. 

CUT-OFF POINT REMAINED LARGELY STABLE

The cut-off point for a majority of schools was the same compared as their indicative cut-off point based on the 2020 PSLE cohort. 

The cut-off point refers to the PSLE score of the last student posted to a particular school for each course.

Schools that had a different cut-off point mostly saw a change of 1 AL compared to their indicative cut-off point, said MOE. 

"This suggests that students and their parents, like in previous years, have generally made informed school choices by selecting a range of schools with different cut-off points" said MOE. 

MOE added that no school has a cut-off point of 4 or 5. 

Students who wish to appeal for a school transfer due to non-medical reasons must meet the school's cut-off point. 

MOE said it ensures that the "S1 posting system remains fair, transparent and objective". 

Under the new system, students will continue to be admitted to a secondary school and course (express, normal academic and normal technical) based on their overall PSLE performance.

However, if two or more students have the same PSLE Score and same citizenship status, the student who ranked the school higher will be considered first, said MOE.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      FAQ: What you should know about the PSLE scoring system and cut-off points for secondary schools
REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS

“Students do not need to report immediately to their posted secondary schools after receiving their S1 posting results,” the ministry said.

“Instead, students should refer to their posted schools’ websites from Dec 22, 2021 for more information such as instructions on the online purchase of books and uniforms, booklist, and the reporting details.”

Parents who are on Parents Gateway will also receive instructions from the secondary schools.

Students who are unable to report to their posted secondary school on Jan 4 - the first day of school - may contact the school directly to confirm that they are taking up the place. The school will then keep the spot for them.
