SINGAPORE: Civil servants in Singapore will receive a one-month year-end bonus, with those in junior grades getting an additional S$500, said the Public Service Division (PSD) on Thursday (Nov 25). 

This is in recognition of "the sustained hard work and diverse contributions" of officers in the fight against COVID-19, said PSD. 

Officers in grades equivalent to MX15 and MX16, as well as those in OSS Grades III to V will receive the additional one-time payment of S$500.

Taken together with the mid-year payments, civil servants will receive a total of 1.3 months in full-year annual variable component (AVC), with those in more junior grades receiving an additional one-time sum of up to S$1,200 in 2021, said PSD.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      No year-end bonus for civil servants, but 13th month bonus will still be paid out: PSD

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Civil servants to get 0.3-month mid-year bonus; one-time payment for junior grades
The Government will continue to pay the non-pensionable annual allowance, also known as the 13th-month bonus.

PSD said the public service "has demonstrated tenacity and resolve" in the prolonged battle against COVID-19.

"The Government deeply appreciates the hard work and perseverance of all public officers in the fight against the pandemic.

"Working together, we will emerge stronger from this crisis, as a nation," it said. 

There was no year-end bonus for civil servants last year. This year, a 0.3-month mid-year bonus was given to all civil servants. 

Singapore’s economy remains on track for a recovery in 2021, said PSD. 

"The economy expanded by 7.1 per cent on a year-on-year basis in the third quarter of 2021 and the Ministry of Trade and Industry has updated its GDP growth forecast to “around 7.0 per cent” for 2021," it said. 

On the labour market front, resident employment grew more quickly in the third quarter, particularly in outward-oriented industries, and unemployment rates declined for the second consecutive month in September 2021, PSD added.
