SINGAPORE: Many DBS and POSB customers were unable to access the banks' online services on Tuesday (Nov 23), with the disruption lasting for more than 12 hours.

Reports of service outages began surging at about 10am, according to the website Downdetector, with close to 600 outage reports made about DBS by about 2.30pm.

DBS acknowledged the issue in a Facebook post at about 2.50pm, saying that some of its customers were facing "intermittent slowness" when accessing its banking services.

In an update at about 10pm, DBS said: "The inability to access an essential service over such an extended period of time is unacceptable and we deeply regret the inconvenience caused.

"We are doing our best to resolve the situation and as part of our recovery efforts, we will take some services temporarily offline."

This means some services will be taken offline temporarily from 10pm to 11pm, including bank's Paylah!, digibank and 3D e-comm transaction services.
DBS outages reported on the website Downdetector on Nov 23, 2021.
Earlier in the day, payment services provider NETS said that the eNETS Debit service for DBS customers was "temporarily unavailable".

"DBS customers using eNETS debit internet banking will not be able to perform any transactions for the time being," NETS said in a Facebook post.

"We are working with DBS to restore the service as soon as possible and apologise for the inconvenience caused."

NETS added that it would provide updates on its website and Facebook page "as and when we have them".

At 3.30pm, the DBS Internet banking login page had a message that read: “Login to digital services may be intermittently unavailable. Please be patient with us while we try to sort it out.”

Attempts to log in at this time were met with the message: “This service is temporarily unavailable. Please try again at a later time.”
A message about "intermittent connectivity" displayed on the PayLah! app on Nov 23, 2021.
The PayLah! app also displayed a message about “intermittent connectivity”. However, a check by CNA showed that money could be transferred to a PayLah! wallet from a POSB bank account and vice versa.

CNA has contacted DBS for comment.
