SINGAPORE: Two more hawker centres can now welcome larger groups of up to five vaccinated diners, an increase from the initial batch of 11, the National Environment Agency (NEA) announced on Friday (Nov 26).

Taman Jurong Food Centre and the hawker centre at Block 137 Tampines Street 11 were added to the list after putting in place vaccination checks at access points.

Another 19 hawker centres will be added over the coming days as vaccination checks are progressively implemented, according to NEA's website.

From Saturday, Bukit Panjang Hawker Centre and Market can start welcoming groups of up to five vaccinated diners.

The remaining 18 hawker centres will open up to the bigger groups from Monday. They are:

Yishun Park Hawker Centre
	Maxwell Food Centre
	Tanglin Halt Market
	Chomp Chomp Food Centre
	East Coast Lagoon Food Village
	Adam Food Centre
	Commonwealth Crescent Market
	Block 51 Old Airport Road
	Block 117 Aljunied Avenue 2
	Block 13/14 Haig Road
	Block 4A Eunos Crescent
	Serangoon Garden Market
	Block 50A Marine Terrace
	Block 79/79A Circuit Road
	Block 80 Circuit Road
	Block 84 Marine Parade Central
	Block 89 Circuit Road
	Block 104/105 Yishun Ring Road
In addition to the hawker centres, seven coffee shops have already been allowed to welcome groups of up to five vaccinated diners.

The remaining hawker centres are expected to be able to welcome the bigger groups by the end of November, NEA said. In the meantime, the smaller group size limit of two vaccinated diners continues to apply to them.

When visiting hawker centres, patrons can show the vaccination status on their TraceTogether app or scan their TraceTogether token to be given entry.

"Fully vaccinated or eligible persons will be given a sticker to identify them for permissible dine-in, while those who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated can only purchase food to take away," said NEA in a Facebook post.

Unvaccinated children aged 12 and below can be included in the groups of diners.

Editor's note: The list of hawker centres that will open up to bigger groups has been updated to remove Block 4A Jalan Batu and include Serangoon Garden Market after NEA corrected information on its website.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Sticking to current dine-in cap of two people ‘much simpler and easier’ due to logistical challenges: Coffee shop operators

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      No crowds yet but hawkers hopeful as more can dine in at some markets
BOOKMARK THIS: Our comprehensive coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic and its developments

Download our app or subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.asia/telegram
