SINGAPORE: Singapore's Foreign Affairs Minister Vivian Balakrishnan on Tuesday (Dec 21) sent condolences to his counterparts in Malaysia and the Philippines over the recent natural disasters in both countries.

More than 20 people have died in Malaysia, while about 70,000 people have been forced from their homes, after days of torrential rain triggered some of the worst flooding in years across the country at the weekend.

Dr Balakrishnan said in his letter to Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs Saifuddin Abdullah that "Singapore stands in solidarity with Malaysia during this difficult time”.

"I am saddened by the tragic loss of lives and devastation caused by the floods in several parts of Malaysia," he said. 

"I extend my deepest condolences to the families of the victims and all Malaysians whose livelihoods have been affected.

"The Malaysian government is swiftly mounting relief efforts, and I am confident that the Malaysian people will overcome this crisis with strength and fortitude," he added.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      'It’s beautiful to see everyone working in harmony': Malaysia volunteers out in force to aid flood victims

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Malaysia PM Ismail Sabri admits weaknesses in flood management, promises improvement 

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      'Almost everything we own is gone': Malaysia flood victims rue damage to property, valuables
He also sent a letter expressing condolences to the Philippines’ Secretary of Foreign Affairs Teodoro Locsin Jr.

At least 375 people were killed and hundreds injured after Typhoon Rai devastated several areas in the country’s central and southern regions. More than 400,000 people have also fled their homes, as the storm destroyed infrastructure and knocked out communication and electricity in many areas.

“It is distressing that so many families have lost their homes, livelihoods and loved ones, especially with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,” Dr Balakrishnan wrote.

“Singapore stands ready to provide any assistance required by the Philippines during this difficult time.  

"Our thoughts are with the people of the Philippines during this difficult time, and I wish the Philippines strength and fortitude to overcome this natural disaster," he added.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      'I'm okay': Philippine typhoon survivors write letters to loved ones

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      More than 100 dead in Philippines typhoon: Officials

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Troops race to deliver aid to Philippine typhoon survivors
The Singapore Red Cross has pledged a combined US$100,000 (S$136,772) in humanitarian aid to the two countries following the natural disasters.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked Singaporeans in the affected areas to monitor local news closely and heed the instructions of the local authorities.

They are also advised to keep in touch with family and friends, as well as to eRegister with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Singaporeans in need of consular assistance may contact the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Duty Office, or the relevant overseas missions:

Ministry of Foreign Affairs Duty Office (24-hours)

Tel: +65 6379 8800 / 8855

Email: mfa_duty_officer [at] mfa.gov.sg

 

High Commission of the Republic of Singapore in Kuala Lumpur

Tel: +60-3-2161-6277

Emergency Tel (after hours): +60-16-661-0400

Email: singhc_kul [at] mfa.sg

 

Embassy of the Republic of Singapore in Manila

Tel: +63-2-8856-9922

Emergency Tel (after hours): +63-917-860-4740

Email: singemb_mnl [at] mfa.sg
