SINGAPORE: Paediatric vaccination centres are being set up for children aged five to 11 to receive their COVID-19 jabs.

In a Facebook post on Thursday (Dec 16), Health Minister Ong Ye Kung said he visited a centre which is “gearing up to start work later this month”, adding that it can vaccinate about 1,000 children a day.

He said about 300,000 children can "benefit from greater protection, after clinical trials showed that vaccination is safe and effective".

“Lots of care was taken in designing the centre to clearly separate children and adult lanes. Even the computers used to input children’s records are marked differently, with a big superhero sticker,” Mr Ong said.

Parents will be allowed to accompany their child at the centre, he added.

The staff at the centres are “specially trained in paediatric vaccination" and there will be paediatric experts supporting each vaccination centre.
Superhero stickers used at a paediatric vaccination centre. (Photo: Facebook/Ong Ye Kung)
    
  
                                                    

                    



            
      
      Computers, used to input children’s records, are marked with a big superhero sticker. (Photo: Facebook/Ong Ye Kung)
    
  
                                                    

                    



            
      
      A superhero sticker pack used at a paediatric vaccination centre. (Photo: Facebook/Ong Ye Kung)
    
  
                                                    

                    



            
      
      Health Minister Ong Ye Kung takes a photo of nurses from healthcare group Minmed working behind the vaccine preparation station. (Photo: Facebook/Ong Ye Kung)
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Singapore approves Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for children aged 5 to 11; first shots by end-2021

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      COVID-19 vaccination bookings for children aged 5 to 11 to begin next week if supplies arrive 'as scheduled': Chan Chun Sing

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Singapore ‘hopeful’ of extending COVID-19 vaccines to children below 12 from January
Singapore’s Health Sciences Authority (HSA) last week approved the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine in children aged five to 11. The vaccine will be administered as a two-dose primary series, 21 days apart, but given a lower dose than that used for individuals aged 12 and above.

The Ministry of Health (MOH) also said that a new supply agreement with Pfizer-BioNTech for the vaccine had been signed, and the ministry expects the shipment to arrive before the end of December.

Education Minister Chan Chun Sing said on Tuesday that the booking of COVID-19 vaccination schedules for children will progressively open from next week if vaccine delivery “arrives as scheduled”.
BOOKMARK THIS: Our comprehensive coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic and its developments

Download our app or subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.asia/telegram
