Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Two travellers from South Africa who transited in Singapore test positive for Omicron COVID-19 variant in Sydney

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      SIA passengers with Omicron variant who transited in Singapore: What we know so far
Infectious diseases physician Ling Li Min noted that the effectiveness of vaccines is a concern.

“Given that it has many mutations in the same regions of the spike protein, it would be able to evade some of the antibodies that people have acquired either from vaccines or from COVID-19 infections,” said Dr Ling, who practises at Rophi Clinic at Gleneagles Hospital.

Some monoclonal antibody treatments may not work against Omicron, she added.

Any restrictive measures implemented would include a series of measures from household visits, social activities, dining in at eateries and travelling in and out of Singapore.

Travel restrictions would reduce the risk of exposure to the virus, especially for international travel, Assoc Prof Luo said.

DETERMINING THE RISK 

But National University Hospital's Professor Dale Fisher said border closures would only slow down the introduction of the variant here.

“I think it's inevitable. We can’t close the borders every time there is a new variant of concern. Any measures introduced should align with our COVID resilience strategy,” said the senior consultant at the hospital’s division of infectious disease.

Assoc Prof Howard echoed the view. Closing borders now that it has already crossed into multiple countries may not be “particularly useful”, she said.

“It is most important to find out as quickly as possible what risks this new variant of concern poses, how vaccines may need to be updated, and whether our existing public health responses need to be revised,” she said.  

Prof Fisher, who is also chair of the national infection prevention and control committee at the Ministry of Health, noted that most restrictions come with some social and economic impact.

“We need to act on the science and what is known rather than fear. It is not sustainable to bounce in and out of the restrictions every time we find a new variant of concern,” he said.

He also said that given Singapore still has many restrictions in place – more than most of the rest of the world – it is “quite simple” to pause the easing of restrictions without going backwards.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Singapore to enhance COVID-19 testing protocols for all travellers as part of measures to deal with Omicron variant

  
  
  
     
    
    
  


                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Weekly PCR tests for border frontline workers who may come into contact with travellers from Omicron-affected areas
WORST-CASE SCENARIO

The most important parameter in deciding restrictions will be the severity of the Omicron variant, Prof Fisher said. The information on the outcomes of those vaccinated and not vaccinated who contract Omicron needs to be stratified by age and comorbidities, he said.

“If we find that the outcomes are similar or worse than Delta and that these outcomes occur irrespective of vaccine status then we most certainly have a problem,” he said.

In the worst-case scenario involving the Omicron variant being more severe, it would “really require extreme measures given the amount of transmission currently in place”.

It would be very difficult to reintroduce contact tracing, quarantine and supervised isolation of cases without a drastic reduction in current COVID-19 numbers, he said. However, based on the information so far, the speculation is that it could be milder, he said.

“A non-severe yet very transmissible variant that replaces Delta would likely be a good thing. It’s just too early to tell yet,” he said, adding that more information on the variant will emerge in the next couple of weeks.

“A pause in easing and some planning for a worst-case scenario while we await the outcomes' data is the line we should now be walking.”

Amid the emergence of Omicron and changing rules on international travel, the experts suggested anticipating these changes or avoiding international travel if possible.

However, Assoc Prof Howard said there is no reason to panic given that Singapore’s “tried and true” public health responses continue to be effective during each stage of the pandemic.

She urged people to get vaccinated and get their booster jabs when they are eligible.

“While vaccines may be less effective against Omicron, evidence thus far suggests they are still beneficial. Do keep wearing your mask, safe distancing and minimising large gatherings,” she said.
BOOKMARK THIS: Our comprehensive coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic and its developments

Download our app or subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.asia/telegram
