SINGAPORE: More than 2,900 household appliances sold on major e-commerce platforms this year were unregistered, the Consumer Product Safety Office (CPSO) said on Friday (Dec 17). 

These items - which were available via Amazon, Carousell, Ezbuy, Lazada, Qoo10 and Shopee Singapore - also did not bear a valid SAFETY Mark. 

Household appliances, which are classified as controlled goods, have to be registered with the CPSO to be issued with an unique SAFETY Mark number. Sellers will then be provided with a valid seal to affix on their products.

The CPSO said the unregistered products were identified following its surveillance efforts and investigations of consumer complaints received between January and November this year. 

The implicated e-commerce platforms have since delisted the unregistered household appliances, said the CPSO. Fines or warnings have also been issued to sellers of the unregistered products. 

Among the top five categories of unregistered household appliances sold online which did not meet regulatory requirements were AC adaptors, portable socket outlets and cooking appliances such as toasters, grills and hotplates.

The other categories are hair care appliances such as hair dryers, as well as liquid heating appliances which include kettles and hot water dispensers.

According to the CPSO website, household products such as home computer systems, table lamps and irons also require the SAFETY Mark, which indicates that the products' design has been tested and certified to be compliant with the relevant safety standards. 

Director of CPSO, Ms Beatrice Wong urged consumers to stay vigilant and conduct due checks on products and sellers when shopping online. 

"This is particularly important when buying household appliances classified as controlled goods, as those that do not meet the safety requirements can pose fire, mechanical and electrical hazards," she added

Those found guilty of supplying unregistered controlled goods faces a jail term of up to two years, a maximum fine of S$10,000, or both.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Elmark fined S$123,000 for selling unregistered ceiling fans, water heaters; consumers advised to stop using affected products
SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS WHEN ONLINE SHOPPING
  
  
      

            Check product listing: Consumers should contact sellers for more details on the product's safety requirements and if it bears a SAFETY Mark.

Check product safety: Consumers should search the register of controlled goods online to check if it has a valid SAFETY Mark. 

Check seller reliability: Consumers can check feedback and product reviews from past buyers to ensure no safety hazards or reliability issues have been reported. They should also choose a seller which provides full warranty by the manufacturer. 

Check product compatibility: Consumers should always contact the seller to verify the details and ensure that it comes with plugs and voltages that are suitable for use in Singapore. 

Consumers who encounter any product safety-related issues for online purchases of household appliances can lodge a report to the CPSO at 6898 1800. 
      
  
  
     Collapse 
    Expand
