SINGAPORE: Singapore residents will be able to collect free reusable masks from Jan 10, in another nationwide distribution by Temasek Foundation.

Residents will be able to collect one free MaskPure AIR+ reusable mask each from any mask vending machine located islandwide, the organisation said in a Facebook post on Thursday (Jan 6).

The free collection starts from Jan 10, 10am to Jan 23, 11.59pm. 

"There is sufficient stock of free masks, so there is no need to rush," said Temasek Foundation in a media release. 

Designed by ST Engineering, the antimicrobial mask has an N95 filtration middle layer with a "particle filtration efficiency" of more than 95 per cent.

The mask provides "proven" N95-grade filtration against PM2.5 and harmful particles, and antimicrobial protection against 99.9% of viruses and bacteria, said Temasek Foundation.

The water-repellent mask can be rinsed once a week or when it is dirty. It retains its protective features for up to 30 rinses or more than seven months if worn daily and rinsed weekly. 

After 30 rinses, the mask can continue to be used like an ordinary mask or with other masks for added protection, said the company. 

"Incorrect rinsing methods will reduce the effectiveness and durability of the mask," Temasek Foundation added. 

The mask comes in two sizes, M and L, for all adults and some older teenagers. No children's sizes are available for these reusable masks. 

As the sizing is different from previous distributions, Temasek Foundation reminded people to check their size at stayprepared.sg/sizing-guide before collection or pre-ordering more masks.

There will also be no exchanges or refunds after the collection for hygiene reasons. 

ADDITIONAL MASKS FOR PRE-ORDER

Additional masks may also be ordered online at S$13 each, said Temasek Foundation. 

Pre-orders will start from Jan 10 to Jan 22 at stayprepared.sg/buymasks. Residents may order up to five masks per mask type, subjected to availabilty. 

Residents were also advised to collect and try on the free mask to check the correct sizing before ordering more masks.

This is the fifth time Temasek Foundation is distributing free reusable masks, after three previous rounds in 2020 and one last year.
BOOKMARK THIS: Our comprehensive coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic and its developments

Download our app or subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.asia/telegram
