SINGAPORE: The results of the 2021 Singapore-Cambridge Ordinary Level (O-Level) exams will be released at 2pm on Jan 12, with students to collect their results in their classrooms.

Only school candidates collecting their results will be allowed into school premises, and they will be expected to observe safe management measures, the Ministry of Education (MOE) and Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board (SEAB) said on Wednesday (Jan 5).

Students on COVID-19 health risk warning will be allowed to collect their results in person if they obtain negative results on an antigen rapid test taken on the day of the results release before going to school.

Those who are unwell or are required to self-isolate due to a positive COVID-19 test result should not go to school, said MOE and SEAB.

They can check their results on SEAB's online candidates portal from 2.45pm on Jan 12 instead. The portal will remain accessible until Jan 26.

Students can use their Singpass account to access the portal, while international students will receive a system-generated username via email from Jan 7.

Those who are unable to collect their results in person should inform their schools, said MOE and SEAB.

They can appoint a proxy to collect the results on their behalf. Proxies will be required to produce the relevant documents for the school's verification.

Students can contact their schools for assistance if they are unable to appoint a proxy, or if they have not received their system-generated username for the online portal, added the authorities.

Private candidates will receive their results by post. These will be mailed on Jan 12 to the address they have provided to SEAB. Candidates who have Singpass can also obtain their results on the online portal.
Related:
      
  
    
  
      
                




        
        
        



        
    
      
    
      
  








            

  
        

      

      Commentary: O-Level results and the problem with expecting youth to figure out their life based on an exam
APPLYING FOR ADMISSION

Using their O-Level results, candidates can apply for admission to junior colleges, Millennia Institute, polytechnics and the Institute of Technical Education (ITE) through the Joint Admissions Exercise (JAE).

The JAE Internet System will be accessible from 3pm on Jan 12, to 4pm on Jan 17 for students to submit their course choices.

When collecting their exam results, eligible school candidates will receive their copy of Form A, which lists their results, courses they can apply for and a personal password to access the JAE Internet System. Private candidates will receive Form A via post.

Students can appoint a proxy to collect their Form A from schools by Jan 14. Alternatively, candidates can download a copy of Form A from the JAE Internet System using Singpass during the registration period.

"Applicants are strongly encouraged to use the JAE worksheet (provided in Form A or the JAE information booklet) before submitting their online application," said MOE and SEAB.

ADMISSION RESULTS TO BE RELEASED ON FEB 4

The JAE posting results will be released on Feb 4 via SMS and the JAE Internet System.

Applicants posted to the junior colleges and Millennia Institute are to report to the posted school on Feb 7.

If unable to report on the first day of school due to "valid reasons", students can contact the posted school to confirm that they are taking up the place, and the school will be able to reserve the place for them, said the authorities.

Applicants posted to polytechnics and ITE will receive a letter from their respective institutions on the enrolment details.

DIRECT SCHOOL ADMISSIONS FOR JC

Students who accepted offers through the Direct School Admission - Junior Colleges exercise will be admitted to their chosen school if their O-Level results meet the eligibility criteria. These students will not be eligible to participate in the JAE.

Students who do not meet the eligibility criteria can take part in the JAE.

EARLY ADMISSIONS FOR POLYTECHNICS, ITE

Students who earlier accepted conditional offers through the Polytechnic Early Admissions Exercise will have their offers confirmed if they meet the following criteria:

A net ELR2B23 score of 26 points or better for the O-Levels
	Minimum entry requirements for the respective polytechnic courses
These students will not be eligible to participate in the JAE.

Students who do not meet the above criteria will get another chance to apply to polytechnic through the JAE.

Students who accepted conditional offers through the ITE Early Admissions Exercise will have their offers confirmed if they meet the subject-specific minimum entry requirements for the ITE course.

SECONDARY 4 NORMAL (ACADEMIC) STUDENTS

Secondary 4 Normal (Academic) students who sat for O-Level subjects can use their results to apply for a place in the Polytechnic Foundation Programme or Direct-Entry-Scheme to Polytechnic Programme.

The Polytechnic Foundation Programme is a one-year foundation programme at polytechnics to prepare students for entry into the relevant diploma courses. It is an alternative to the Secondary 5 Normal (Academic) year.

During the O-Level results collection on Jan 12, eligible students will receive a copy of Form P containing a unique password that they can use to submit their applications.

Applications for this programme will be open from 2pm on Jan 12, to 4pm on Jan 17. The posting results will be released online at 2pm on Jan 21.

The Direct-Entry-Scheme to Polytechnic Programme prepares students for selected polytechnic diploma courses through a two-year Higher Nitec course at ITE.

Eligible students can submit their applications online during the final application phase between Jan 12 and Jan 17. Posting results will be released at 9am on Jan 19. After acceptance, successful applicants should report to ITE on Jan 24.
